Claims from 2021: Campus dining failures
Hey y’all.
I know many of us are unhappy about the dining situation this semester. Admin has made empty promises about expanding operations, yet we continue to experience their failures every day. There was a petition earlier this semester to try and get their attention, but their reply was a straw-manned argument that fixed nothing. VSG seems to have done nothing about it either.
I’m trying to put together a comprehensive list of complaints that I will email to some people in charge, and I would really appreciate any additional (valid) points/anecdotes.
Just off the top of my head I can list a few:
* Munchie marts selections have decreased in number significantly between pre-covid times and now despite meal plan costs increasing
* Munchie mart up charge is too damn high
* Things considered “entrees” are questionable
* Salad bars are often filled with old rotting items towards the mid-late week
* At munchies can only get 1 entree/2 sides or just 2 sides with 1 meal swipe; if you try to get 3 sides with a single swipe they take you out back and beat your ass
* Always the same couple of rotating menus: limited variety and god forbid you have any dietary restrictions
* Rand still closed for dinner
* Hope you aren’t hungry after 7:30pm bc all you’ll have is munchie food which barely counts
What am I missing?
Campus Dining sucking as per the usual
It's so nice of Campus dining to give us $20 to use on food for the next few days. Oh wait, a lot of the restaurants in town aren't even open, and the ones that are are charging crazy delivery fees. Typical Campus Dining when they could just gave us meal money to use at our own discretion :)
It does work as meal money, just only lasts a day. Agreed though, the dining workers have been pulling through and working hard, but the dining admin doesn’t give a shit about us
What are flex meals?
Title.
I'm just confused it to what they are, and how it affects my actual meal plan. Also, does anyone know what the deadline to select meal plans are?
Thanks in advance.
Flex meals are extra meals you can purchase to use whenever. Usually people not on the meal plan (offcampus) will buy a few. I think every other meal plan comes with 5, though. If you’re on the meal, I wouldn’t worry about it. This is all from last year though, so there could have been changes.
what's up with campus dining this year
venting right now, but one meal swipe per hour?? why?? on top of the increased prices for all meal plans and rand not even being open for dinner all week, i'm just super frustrated and hate how they're trying to spin this as more flexible.
i basically needed to get multiple meals at a time last year due to my schedule and classes during meal hours. not sure how I'm going to eat this year, much less use up enough meal swipes.
One meal swipe per hour was how it worked pre-COVID, but overall they made a bit of a big fucking mistake with thisIIRC, it was one meal swipe per meal period (breakfast/lunch/dinner/4th meal) a decade ago.Yeah, it was. I think I remember it changing to the hourly system around 2017 or so.They changed it in the 2019-2020 school year. My first year was 2018-2019 and we still had meal periodsWhat’s most upsetting is that they clearly don’t care about student complaints. Dozens of ignored comments on their social media posts shows they’re going to continue programming as usual. Email them and encourage your friends to, too. I doubt they’ll listen, but maybe if they get enough formal complaints they’ll have to do something.


Vanderbilt Food
What is the options for food? Indian Food, Latin American Food, Chinese?
You can look up our dining hall menus online. We have all those kinds of foods you named and more everyday -- foods pretty good hereFor anything good you gotta go off campus.
The closest Indian that’s really good imo is Nawabi Hyderabad House. It’s right by centennial park so it’s a bit of a walk from campus. Taj is the best but that’s a little bit of a drive away.
All the best Latin American food is on Nolansville road too, a well in the Madison area.
Chinese takeout is dime a dozen, but if you want good Asian food… gotta go to Atlanta for that, lo
on campus indian food is so ass