How are OUR dining halls
Is the food any good, I’m transferring from Texas A&M where the food was very mediocre.
Upvote
7
Downvote
5
Go to comments


It’s like okay. There’s def some very tasty staple items in every dining hall but you should just get in the habit of checking the menu to see where you want to eat. I do appreciate that Vandy has some other spots on the meal plan for decent coffee, açaí bowls, etc that a lot of schools don’t have
pretty good, many MANY options (like 10 different dining halls with a variety of cuisine). obviously some dishes rnt gonna be so great but theres more than a few great things, just make sure to mix up what ur getting or you'll get sick of the food pretty quick
1. zeppos: the quality of food here is much higher than any other dining hall. mediterranean bowl here is goated, specifically the lamb. sandwich is solid too.
2. roth: custom stir fry but lines can be long. beef korma and pho are solid.
3. pub: burgers, wings, quesadillas, fries, etc. pretty fire.
carm: coffee, turkey pesto sandwich, fruit cups, & goated muffins are good
rand: mongolian (specifically the commodore tso chicken), randwich, rand cookie good
ebi: can be sometimes good but can also be mid, just depends what's on the menu
kissam: overall food quality is pretty bad, more misses than hits. they always manage to overcook their shit to oblivion.
Favorite Restaurants / Food in Nashville
My parents will be in town for a week (they eat everything), was wondering what your favorite bites to eat were in Nashville?
Thanks in advance!!
Biscuit Love (their breakfast is so good) or Funtime Rameni second biscuit love. i rec the east nasty or their omelette
I would say Bread & Co. or Café Coco, but RIP 😭😭
If you like Indian, Bombay Palace is still one of my favorite places near campus. 


Grilled Cheeserie, Princes, Deg Thai, Hyderabad, Shabu Shabu, Onda, Amerigo
Shabu Shabu is not good! Sichuan Hot Pot & Asian Cuisine is much better for hot pot imo, although a little drive away


Smiling elephant for thai


For something off the beaten track try Osh or Uzbegim


Biscuit Love is great, but I also love Pancake Pantry.
Jashan on 21st is a great Indian place and has a very relaxed atmosphere.
Catbird Seat for an upscale dinner, but you’d need reservations.
Assembly Food Hall is a good location to try Prince’s if not everyone in your group wants hot chicken.






Heard alot of good things about catbird seat, thank you!


urban grub for amazing american/steak & literally anything else on 12 south. VN pho for vietnamese, smiling elephant for thai, pancake pantry for breakfast/brunch, taco mamas for chipotle-style mexican